By the time the winter rains came to the city, we were not becoming rich, but we were doing well. Each day we put a little money away in our cold tin can. Father never said anything, but I knew he was thinking about the day when we might be able to afford to bring Mother over. You see, it was not simply a matter of paying her passage over on the boat. Father would probably have to go over after her and escort her across. There had to be money for bribes--tea money, Uncle called it--at both ends of the ocean. Now that we no longer belonged to the Company, we somehow had to acquire a thousand dollars worth of property, a faraway figure when you can only save nickels and dimes.
And yet the hope that we could start our own little fix-it shop and qualify as merchants steadily grew with the collection of coins in the tin can. I was happy most of the time, even when it became the time for the New Year by the Tang people's reckoning.
We took the old picture of the Stove King and smeared some honey on it before we burned it in the stove. Later that evening we would hang up a new picture of the Stove King that we had bought in the Tang people's town. That was a sign the Stove King had returned to his place above our stove. After we had finished burning the old picture, we say down to a lunch of meat pastries and dumplings. Robin ate quietly--for her, that is. Actually, she monopolized only half the conversation. "Look," she said. "My aunt would never go in for those pagan customs--not in her house. But I could sneak the old picture out and tell her you wanted to replace it with a new one. Then you could smear honey on it for her."
"But you no believe in the Stove King."
"Of course not," she snapped. She squirmed in her seat. "But it might make you feel better."
I could see that she really wanted to make herself feel better. No sense in taking chances with the supernatural, and so on. I could tell her train of thought because I sometimes carried the little cross she had given me in my pocket--just as insurance.
